README.md, before:

# **FTSE100 API**💵
Dive into this FTSE100 API created using SpringBoot!

## Description

Investing in stocks and shares is an effective way to make your money work for you without you physically being present. 
The FTSE100 is made up of the top 100 companies in the UK by market capitalization (total market value of all of a companies outstanding shares) and it is generally a good place to start when investing however, [popularity](https://www.cnbc.com/2019/01/04/good-companies-often-make-bad-investments-new-study-shows.html) should not be the main motivator for investing in a stock.

The aim of this API is to help users make an informed decision on which companies to invest in based on important valuation metrics. It uses a json file to store and retrieve data on financial metrics of all the companies in the FTSE100. 

## Data Model 

```java 
public class Ftse100 {
    private String companyName;
    private String tickerSymbol; 
    private String sector;
    private double stockPrice;
    private long marketCapitalization;
    private double priceToEquityRatio;
    private double priceToBookRatio;
    private double debtToEquityRatio;
    private double esgRiskRating;
}
```
EXPLAIN EACH METRIC IN THE SIMPLEST WAY POSSIBLE!

## Getting Started 

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have the following installed:

1. [JDK 17](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/java/openjdk/download#openjdk-17) (or higher)

2. [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

3. [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download)
   - [Extension Pack for Java](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vscjava.vscode-java-pack)
   - [Spring Boot Extension Pack](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vmware.vscode-boot-dev-pack)
4. [API Platform Postman](https://www.postman.com/downloads/) 


### Steps to Setup

#### 1. Open the terminal on VS Code, navigate to your desired repository and clone the Repository

```sh
cd [DIRECTORY_NAME]
git clone [REPO_URL]
cd [REPO_NAME]
```

- Replace [DIRECTORY_NAME] with the name of your directory
- Replace [REPO_URL] with the link to this GitHub repository 
- Replace [REPO_NAME] with the repository's name.

#### 2. Install Dependencies

At the root of the repo directory and run the following command to install the dependencies:

```sh
./mvnw clean dependency:resolve
```

If you are on a Windows machine, that will be:
```cmd
mvnw clean dependency:resolve
```

You should see console output similar to the following:

```sh
[INFO] Scanning for projects...
[INFO] 
[INFO] -------------------< com.cbfacademy:api-assessment >--------------------
[INFO] Building api-assessment 0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
[INFO]   from pom.xml
[INFO] --------------------------------[ jar ]---------------------------------
[INFO] 
[INFO] --- clean:3.2.0:clean (default-clean) @ api-assessment ---
[INFO] Deleting /Users/user/Dev/cbfacademy/java-api-assessment/target
...
[truncated output]
...
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] BUILD SUCCESS
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Total time:  3.060 s
[INFO] Finished at: 2023-10-03T16:18:25+01:00
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

#### 3. Running the Application

To start the API in VS Code, press `F5` or tap the *Run* option located above the main method in the *App.java* file: 
```java 
	  	public static void main(String[] args) {
		SpringApplication.run(App.class, args);
	}
```

Alternatively, to start the API from the terminal, run the following command:

```sh
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

Or on Windows:

```cmd
mvnw spring-boot:run
```

You should see console output similar to the following (press `Ctrl + C` to exit):

```sh
[INFO] Scanning for projects...
[INFO] 
[INFO] -------------------< com.cbfacademy:api-assessment >--------------------
[INFO] Building api-assessment 0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
[INFO]   from pom.xml
[INFO] --------------------------------[ jar ]---------------------------------
[INFO] 
[INFO] --- clean:3.2.0:clean (default-clean) @ api-assessment ---
[INFO] Deleting /Users/gary/Dev/cbfacademy/java-api-assessment/target
[INFO] 
[INFO] >>> spring-boot:3.1.4:run (default-cli) > test-compile @ api-assessment >>>
[INFO] 
[INFO] --- resources:3.3.1:resources (default-resources) @ api-assessment ---
[INFO] Copying 1 resource from src/main/resources to target/classes
[INFO] Copying 0 resource from src/main/resources to target/classes
...
[truncated output]
...
2023-10-03T17:17:34.413+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] .e.DevToolsPropertyDefaultsPostProcessor : For additional web related logging consider setting the 'logging.level.web' property to 'DEBUG'
2023-10-03T17:17:34.751+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] o.s.b.w.embedded.tomcat.TomcatWebServer  : Tomcat initialized with port(s): 8080 (http)
2023-10-03T17:17:34.756+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] o.apache.catalina.core.StandardService   : Starting service [Tomcat]
2023-10-03T17:17:34.756+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] o.apache.catalina.core.StandardEngine    : Starting Servlet engine: [Apache Tomcat/10.1.13]
2023-10-03T17:17:34.777+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] o.a.c.c.C.[Tomcat].[localhost].[/]       : Initializing Spring embedded WebApplicationContext
2023-10-03T17:17:34.778+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] w.s.c.ServletWebServerApplicationContext : Root WebApplicationContext: initialization completed in 364 ms
2023-10-03T17:17:34.898+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] o.s.b.d.a.OptionalLiveReloadServer       : LiveReload server is running on port 35729
2023-10-03T17:17:34.907+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] o.s.b.w.embedded.tomcat.TomcatWebServer  : Tomcat started on port(s): 8080 (http) with context path ''
2023-10-03T17:17:34.911+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] com.cbfacademy.apiassessment.App         : Started App in 0.643 seconds (process running for 0.786)
```

4. The application can now be accessed at a base URL of [http://localhost:8080/endPoints]() with [/endPoints]() replaced by relevant end points to this application
5. Whilst the application is running, all documentation and operational end points can be seen at:
[Ftse100 API Documentation](http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui-ftse100.html) - could include a cheeky sc here too 


## End Points
All application end points can be accessed and used through the API platform Postman 
![Postman]()

UI -make a new request 
Create collection/folder specific to this API 

Display examples here:
Include basic CRUD end points here:
Creating a new company
Retrieving a company and it's relevant data in the FTSE100
Updating the details 
Deleting a company from the FTSE100 because it no longer exists 


Error Handling 
Detail the errors that can occur as well as the responses that would be displayed by an invalid end point  

Happy requesting! 🚀

Includes releases/this version I'm currently working with

Commit message:

A few changes made to read me regarding API breakdown and explanation

README.md, after:

# **FTSE100 API**💵
Dive into this FTSE100 API created using SpringBoot!

## Description

Investing in stocks and shares is an effective way to make your money work for you without you physically being present. 
The FTSE100 is made up of the top 100 companies in the UK by market capitalization (total market value of all of a companies outstanding shares) and it is generally a good place to start when investing however, [popularity](https://www.cnbc.com/2019/01/04/good-companies-often-make-bad-investments-new-study-shows.html) should not be the main motivator for investing in a stock.

The aim of this API is to help users make an informed decision on which companies to invest in based on important valuation metrics. It uses a json file to store and retrieve data on financial metrics of all the companies in the FTSE100. 

## Data Model 

```java 
public class Ftse100 {
    private String companyName;
    private String tickerSymbol; 
    private String sector;
    private double stockPrice;
    private long marketCapitalization;
    private double priceToEquityRatio;
    private double priceToBookRatio;
    private double debtToEquityRatio;
    private double esgRiskRating;
}
```
EXPLAIN EACH METRIC  + WHY IMPORTANT

## Getting Started 

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have the following installed:

1. [JDK 17](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/java/openjdk/download#openjdk-17) (or higher)

2. [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

3. [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download)
   - [Extension Pack for Java](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vscjava.vscode-java-pack)
   - [Spring Boot Extension Pack](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=vmware.vscode-boot-dev-pack)
4. [API Platform Postman](https://www.postman.com/downloads/) 


### Steps to Setup

#### 1. Open the terminal on VS Code, navigate to your desired repository and clone the Repository

```sh
cd [DIRECTORY_NAME]
git clone [REPO_URL]
cd [REPO_NAME]
```

- Replace [DIRECTORY_NAME] with the name of your directory
- Replace [REPO_URL] with the link to this GitHub repository 
- Replace [REPO_NAME] with the repository's name.

#### 2. Install Dependencies

At the root of the repo directory and run the following command to install the dependencies:

```sh
./mvnw clean dependency:resolve
```

If you are on a Windows machine, that will be:
```cmd
mvnw clean dependency:resolve
```

You should see console output similar to the following:

```sh
[INFO] Scanning for projects...
[INFO] 
[INFO] -------------------< com.cbfacademy:api-assessment >--------------------
[INFO] Building api-assessment 0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
[INFO]   from pom.xml
[INFO] --------------------------------[ jar ]---------------------------------
[INFO] 
[INFO] --- clean:3.2.0:clean (default-clean) @ api-assessment ---
[INFO] Deleting /Users/user/Dev/cbfacademy/java-api-assessment/target
...
[truncated output]
...
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] BUILD SUCCESS
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Total time:  3.060 s
[INFO] Finished at: 2023-10-03T16:18:25+01:00
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

#### 3. Running the Application

To start the API in VS Code, press `F5` or tap the *Run* option located above the main method in the *App.java* file: 
```java 
	  	public static void main(String[] args) {
		SpringApplication.run(App.class, args);
	}
```

Alternatively, to start the API from the terminal, run the following command:

```sh
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

Or on Windows:

```cmd
mvnw spring-boot:run
```

You should see console output similar to the following (press `Ctrl + C` to exit):

```sh
[INFO] Scanning for projects...
[INFO] 
[INFO] -------------------< com.cbfacademy:api-assessment >--------------------
[INFO] Building api-assessment 0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
[INFO]   from pom.xml
[INFO] --------------------------------[ jar ]---------------------------------
[INFO] 
[INFO] --- clean:3.2.0:clean (default-clean) @ api-assessment ---
[INFO] Deleting /Users/gary/Dev/cbfacademy/java-api-assessment/target
[INFO] 
[INFO] >>> spring-boot:3.1.4:run (default-cli) > test-compile @ api-assessment >>>
[INFO] 
[INFO] --- resources:3.3.1:resources (default-resources) @ api-assessment ---
[INFO] Copying 1 resource from src/main/resources to target/classes
[INFO] Copying 0 resource from src/main/resources to target/classes
...
[truncated output]
...
2023-10-03T17:17:34.413+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] .e.DevToolsPropertyDefaultsPostProcessor : For additional web related logging consider setting the 'logging.level.web' property to 'DEBUG'
2023-10-03T17:17:34.751+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] o.s.b.w.embedded.tomcat.TomcatWebServer  : Tomcat initialized with port(s): 8080 (http)
2023-10-03T17:17:34.756+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] o.apache.catalina.core.StandardService   : Starting service [Tomcat]
2023-10-03T17:17:34.756+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] o.apache.catalina.core.StandardEngine    : Starting Servlet engine: [Apache Tomcat/10.1.13]
2023-10-03T17:17:34.777+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] o.a.c.c.C.[Tomcat].[localhost].[/]       : Initializing Spring embedded WebApplicationContext
2023-10-03T17:17:34.778+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] w.s.c.ServletWebServerApplicationContext : Root WebApplicationContext: initialization completed in 364 ms
2023-10-03T17:17:34.898+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] o.s.b.d.a.OptionalLiveReloadServer       : LiveReload server is running on port 35729
2023-10-03T17:17:34.907+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] o.s.b.w.embedded.tomcat.TomcatWebServer  : Tomcat started on port(s): 8080 (http) with context path ''
2023-10-03T17:17:34.911+01:00  INFO 35536 --- [  restartedMain] com.cbfacademy.apiassessment.App         : Started App in 0.643 seconds (process running for 0.786)
```

4. The application can now be accessed at a base URL of [http://localhost:8080/endPoints]() with [/endPoints]() replaced by relevant end points to this application
5. Whilst the application is running, all documentation and operational end points can be seen at:
[Ftse100 API Documentation](http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui-ftse100.html)


## End Points
All application end points can be accessed and used through the API platform Postman 
![Postman]()

UI -make a new request 
Create collection/folder specific to this API 

Goals for today
Complete read me  
- Postman screenshots + anootations
- End point examples using postman as user CRUD
- Error handling + relevant - write responses in json + the status codes
- remember to mention changes will be reflected in the json file 
- Send a version to Michael by 3pm today - after call with Nadia   

Happy requesting! 🚀

Includes releases/this version I'm currently working with
